EgoSchema: A Diagnostic Benchmark for Very Long-form Video Language Understanding

arXiv:2308.09126v1 [cs.CV] 17 Aug 2023

Karttikeya Mangalam

Raiymbek Akshkulakov

Jitendra Malik UC Berkeley
{mangalam, raiymbek, malik}@eecs.berkeley.edu egoschema.github.io

Abstract
We introduce EgoSchema, a very long-form video question-answering dataset, and benchmark to evaluate long video understanding capabilities of modern vision and language systems. Derived from Ego4D, EgoSchema consists of over 5000 human curated multiple choice question answer pairs, spanning over 250 hours of real video data, covering a very broad range of natural human activity and behavior. For each question, EgoSchema requires the correct answer to be selected between five given options based on a three-minute-long video clip. While some prior works have proposed video datasets with long clip lengths, we posit that merely the length of the video clip does not truly capture the temporal difficulty of the video task that is being considered. To remedy this, we introduce temporal certificate sets, a general notion for capturing the intrinsic temporal understanding length associated with a broad range of video understanding tasks & datasets. Based on this metric, we find EgoSchema to have intrinsic temporal lengths over 5.7× longer than the second closest dataset and 10× to 100× longer than any other video understanding dataset. Further, our evaluation of several current state-of-the-art video and language models shows them to be severely lacking in long-term video understanding capabilities. Even models with several billions of parameters achieve QA accuracy less than 33% (random is 20%) on the EgoSchema multi-choice question answering task, while humans achieve about 76% accuracy. We posit that EgoSchema, with its long intrinsic temporal structures and diverse complexity, would serve as a valuable evaluation probe for developing effective long-term video understanding systems in the future. Data and Zero-shot model evaluation code are open-sourced under the Ego4D license at egoschema.github.io.
1 Introduction
We introduce EgoSchema, a diagnostic benchmark for assessing very long-form video-language understanding capabilities of modern multimodal systems. Understanding long natural videos requires a host of interconnected abilities such as action and scene understanding, perceiving and tracking object states, long-term visual memory, abstract reasoning, hierarchical information aggregation, and more. Shown in Fig. 1 is an exemplar of the curated EgoSchema dataset. Consider the visual cognitive faculties involved in answering the question: `What is the overarching behavior of C and the man in the video?'. First, is the spatial recognition capabilities for disambiguating the
Preprint. Under review.

What is the overarching behavior of C and the man in the video?

C teaches the man game rules but the man seems distracted and is not paying attention
The man teaches C how to play the card game while organizing the deck for future games

t = 0s

t = 20s

t = 40s

C and the man are playing a card game while keeping track of it in a notebook
C shows the man how to properly shuffle cards while the man plays them

t = 60s

t = 80s

t = 100s

The man shows C a new card game while C takes notes for future reference
Full Video Link: youtu.be/DIyyVccQPbg

t = 120s

t = 140s

Full Video Link: youtu.be/Tp4q5GeHVMY

t = 180s

Observe the video in terms of characters' actions and interactions. How do these shifts contribute to the overall narrative?

t = 0s

t = 20s

t = 40s

The video displays a profound sense of conflict and tension arising between the characters

The man is showing C the issues that need fixing in the apartment in a professional manner

t = 60s t = 120s

t = 80s t = 140s

t = 100s t = 180s

Both the characters display an increasingly urgent need to solve an issue in the apartment
C and the man admire and interact with several objects in the apartment that look beautiful.
Actions and interactions are casual and relaxed, reflecting a comfortable environment.

Figure 1: The EgoSchema dataset contains over 5000 very long-form video language understanding questions spanning over 250 hours of real, diverse, and high-quality egocentric video data. Each question requires choosing the correct answer out of five choices based on a three minute long video clip. The questions are manually curated to require very long temporal certificates (§3.2). EgoSchema median certificate length is about 100 seconds, which is 5× longer than the closest second dataset and 10× to 100× longer (Fig. 3) than any other video understanding dataset. Stateof-the-Art video-language models consisting of billion of parameters achieve very low accuracy (< 33%) in Zero-shot evaluation (random is 20%) while humans achieve about 76%. `C' refers to the camera wearer. Visualized clips are available at egoschema.github.io/explorer.

referred character `C' (camera wearer) and `the man' as well as the present objects such as `cards', `notebook', deck as so on. Next is short-term temporal recognition capabilities of understanding the atomic actions and movement of the characters such as `playing', `taking notes', `shuffling' etc. Built upon these are the capabilities for visually understanding the mental states such `distracted', `attention' and social dynamics such as `teaching', `showing'. Next are medium-term actions such as `organizing the deck' or `keeping track'. Finally, long-term reasoning capabilities need to be employed for abstracting the `overarching behavior' of the video from all the low-level signals to be able to rule out all the other wrong options and conclude option 3 to be correct. Note that even for humans, it is impossible to answer the illustrated questions with only the shown 9 uniformly sampled frames from the three-minute video (Fig. 1).
While there have been some prior attempts to formulate long-form video tasks [50, 43], they broadly tend to fall into two failure modes. The first failure mode stems from the difficulty of capturing the explosive diversity of human behavior in narrow pre-defined label spaces that leading unduly narrow and oddly specific tasks, such as like ratio or relationship prediction [50]. Hence, we propose to probe video systems capturing the rich complexity of long-form video with something just as rich and complex ­ natural language. However, natural language outputs are notoriously difficult to evaluate with popular metrics such as BLEU [39] and ROUGE [32] having well-known shortcomings [6]. Hence, we propose to evaluate language understanding as a multiple-choice question-answering task, thereby using the well-defined benchmark metric of overall question-answering accuracy.
The second failure mode for a long-term video task is that the proposed task happens to actually be a short-term one - only disguised as a long-term task. To measure the intrinsic "long-term" nature
2

Marked Ground Truth

Certified!
Minimum Certificate Set
,

Certificate Length

EgoSchema 5.7x

UCF101

Kinetics

SomethingSomething

HVUAction

HOW2QA

AVA

HVUConcept
MSRVTT

Youtube-8m

IVQA

AGQA NextQA

180 seconds per = 5400 frames per
LVU ActivityNet-QA

Figure 2: We introduce the notion of a temporal certificate set (top, §3.2), a tool to measure the intrinsic temporal length of a benchmark and show the EgoSchema certificate length distribution (bottom, §4.1) for randomly chosen 100 clips.

Video Clip Length
Figure 3: Certificate Length across video datasets for a broad spectrum of tasks such as action classification, detection, relationship classification, concept classification, video classification, and multiple choice questionanswering. §4.1 details the precise operationalizations.

of a video understanding task, we propose the notion of temporal certificate length [4]. Intuitively, certificate length (§3.2) is the length of the video a human verifier needs to observe to be convinced of the veracity of the marked annotation. The idea of temporal certificates is not limited only to questionanswering or vision-language tasks but is applicable to several video understanding tasks, including pure vision tasks such as action classification, detection, or even temporal action localization.
Based on the length of the temporal certificate, we propose the following temporal understanding taxonomy for video tasks: Datasets with certificate length in the order of 1 second are termed short video tasks. Next, we name datasets with certificate length in the order of 10 seconds as, long-form video tasks. Finally, datasets with certificate length in the order of 100 seconds are termed as, very long-form video tasks. Fig. 3 presents estimates of the certificate lengths for a variety of datasets plotted against the temporal length of the video clip. We observe that the temporal certificate length is quite weakly correlated with the length of the video clip. This is due to the intentional design choice in defining the certificate set, which decouples the task of searching or retrieving the relevant sub-clip from a bigger clip from the task of visually understanding the retrieved sub-clip. And in this manner, using temporal certificate length as a metric for measuring the intrinsic temporal hardness of a dataset, avoids the failure mode of formulating an implicitly short-term task disguised as a long-term one. Section 3.2 details precise operationalizations for estimating the temporal certificate sets.
In summary, our contributions are three-fold. First, we propose the notion of temporal certificates, a broadly applicable notion that measures the intrinsic temporal hardness of clips in a video understanding dataset. We estimate temporal certificate lengths for a broad variety of existing datasets and show that EgoSchema has a median temporal certificate of about 100 seconds, which is 5× longer than the dataset with the second longest certificate length [50], and 25× to 100× longer than all other existing video understanding datasets (with or without language). Second, building upon the notion of temporal certificates, we introduce EgoSchema, a diagnostic benchmark for assessing the very longform video understanding capability of multimodal video-language systems. Third, we benchmark both state-of-the-art video-language systems and humans in Zero-shot settings on EgoSchema to find that even the most advanced current video-language understanding systems consisting of billion of parameters achieve very low accuracy in long-from multiple-choice question-answering (< 33%) while humans achieve about 76% accuracy in the unconstrained setting.
3

Correct & Wrong Answer
Generation
Question Generation

RGB Ego4D video with dense manual narration

Length and
Narration densitybased filtering

Keyword filtering and Generated QA validation

LLM based
QA Filtering

Crowdsourced Videobased QA curation

High-quality recuration

Stage I: Raw Data Filtering Stage II: QA Generation Stage III: QA Filtering

Stage IV: Manual QA Curation

Figure 4: EgoSchema data pipeline. Stage I filters the suitable Ego4D RGB videos and narrations for question-answer generation (§3.1.1). Stage II uses narrations in a chained LLM prompting (§3.1.2) procedure to generate multiple QAW triplets per three-minute video clip (§3.1.2). Stage III performs pre-filtering with rule-based and LLM-based logic (§3.1.3). Finally, Stage IV involves two rounds of human curation on filtered QAW for selecting very long-form video-language understanding data (§3.1.4). The stage width ratios are indicative of the filter selection ratios.

2 Related Works
Video Question-Answering Datasets. Visual Question-Answering [3] is a popular video-language task with several large internet-scale datasets for video-language pre-training such as Ego4D [20], HowTo100M [34] and HowToVQA69M [33]. However, as the scope and size of pre-training datasets and models soar, it becomes critical to construct evaluations for assessing the model capabilities on various axes. Hence, many smaller datasets have been proposed for evaluating different aspects of video-language understanding such as compositional reasoning [21, 22], causal and common scene comprehension [52], instruction understanding [33, 56], video description ability [54], dynamic environments understanding [15], complex web video understanding [62], situated reasoning [49], spatiotemporal reasoning [27], social intelligence [64], dynamic neuro-symbolic reasoning [61], external knowledge-based reasoning [16] and many more [36, 60, 41, 10, 9, 13, 44, 55, 29, 30, 8, 63, 11, 31, 58, 65, 51, 24]. How2VQA69M [33] and iVQA [33] have leveraged HowTo100M [34] ASR text for generating questions. However, unlike Ego4D narrations that are used in EgoSchema, ASR text does not necessarily describe the visual elements in the scene. Hence, questions can suffer from biases where a key required information is visually absent. Additionally, generated question-answers also have quite short certificate lengths (iVQA in Fig. 2) due to the local nature of the ASR text.
Long-form Video Understanding Datasets have been very sparsely explored in prior works. [50] posits a long-form video understanding benchmark but the proposed tasks are unduly narrow and specific, such as the `like' ratio and view count prediction. Also, [50] average certificate length is about 5.7× smaller than EgoSchema.
[35] proposes a dataset for benchmarking efficient video inference consisting of frame-wise object mask annotations from Mask-RCNN [25] but without any long-term annotations. [42] introduces a dataset of about 111 hours of video sourced from Kinetics-400 [7] for generic event boundary detection. While the task itself requires comprehensive understanding, the video clip length is only 10 seconds long, with temporal certificates (§3.2) being much shorter. [46] proposes a questionanswering dataset based on long movie clips but due to the open-ended nature of questions, successful approaches tend to neglect the visual data and are biased purely with approaches using additional text such as story lines. [43] proposes MAD, a language grounding dataset with an average clip of 110 minutes. However, the length of the retrieved clip is quite short (average 4.1 seconds) thereby resulting in a temporal certificate (§3.2) only a few seconds long. Further, MAD [43] and several other movie-based datasets [26, 47, 53] do not release any video data because of copyright issues. In contrast, EgoSchema has an average certificate length of about 100 seconds. Further, EgoSchema will be publicly released under the Ego4D license, which allows direct public use of the video and text data for both research and commercial purposes.
4

Question Generation Prompt
I want you to act as a teacher in the class called "Long-term video understanding". I will provide video action narrations and their timestamps and you will generate three highly difficult and diverse questions .... (continues)
... Please label each question as "Question 1,2,3: [full question]"
Timestamps and narrations: < data >

Option Generation Prompt
I want you to create a difficult multiplechoice exam that tests above student abilities based on the three questions I just provided. Each question should have five similar open-ended but short answers .... (continues)
... Print each correct answer exactly as "Correct answer: [full answer]"
Timestamps and narrations: < data >

Blind Filtering Prompt
Given a question and five answer choices please try to provide the most probable answer in your opinion. Your output should be just one of A,B,C,D,E and nothing else.
Question: < question > Option A: < distractor answer > Option B: < distractor answer > Option C: < distractor answer > Option D: < correct answer > Option E: < distractor answer >

Figure 5: An abridged example of the generation and filtering prompts used in the EgoSchema data generation pipeline (§3). Full versions are provided in the supplementary.

3 Collecting EgoSchema
Collecting video and language datasets, even without a focus on very long-form video is quite challenging. Manually collecting, observing, and annotating videos with free-form language, in contrast to using images and pre-defined label categories, is both labor-intensive and time-consuming and thereby quite expensive. In addition to burgeoning cost, ensuring visual data diversity and minimizing visual and linguistic bias while ensuring high quality of marked annotations also contribute to the overall difficulty. All these factors get severely more challenging for long-form videos.
In this work, we propose a staged data collection pipeline (Fig. 4) utilizing existing large-scale but short-term video datasets, rule-based filtering procedures, and exciting new capabilities afforded by LLMs to significantly lighten the burden on human annotators. We use the proposed pipeline for curating EgoSchema, a high-quality and diverse very long-form video question-answering dataset. Associated datasheets [17] and data cards [40] for EgoSchema are provided in the supplementary.
3.1 EgoSchema Pipeline
3.1.1 Stage I: Raw Data Filtering
Ego4D [20] has over 3670 hours of RGB video spread consisting of over 3.85 million narration instances covering over 1,772 unique verbs (activities) and 4,336 unique nouns (objects) [20]. The narrators are instructed to continuously pause and describe everything that the camera wearer (`C') does. This creates dense and precise narrations that accurately describe the visuals.
Naturally, the collected video has non-uniform length and narration density. Since we would like to standardize the clip length for evaluation and have sufficiently rich narrations to allow interesting question-answer pairs to form in later stages, we filter the data based on the length and narration density. We choose to filter for non-overlapping three-minute clips each with at least 30 human annotated narrations (each narration is a timestamped sentence) to build EgoSchema. Detailed statistic of the number of viable clips for different possible length and narration density choices is discussed in supplementary.
3.1.2 Stage II: Question Answer Generation
The filtered narrations are processed with a capable LLM to generate N Question-Answer triplets (QAW), each consisting of the question Q, the correct answer A, and M wrong answers W, per clip. To achieve this, we experimented with several LLM inference call chaining procedures with trade-offs between quality and cost of generation that are briefly described next.
One-shot is the simplest prompting procedure to prompt for all N instances of QAW in one inference call. This is the most cost-efficient option but we found the generations to be of significantly low quality. The generated Q often are very similar to each other and the generated AW have a very high false positive rate for the correct answers as well as a false negative rate for the wrong answers.
N-shot is the next natural prompting procedure where we generate one QAW per LLM inference call. This significantly improves the false positive and false negative rates but since the generated Q are independent and generated with the same prompt, they still tend to be very similar (comparable to one-shot), even at higher sampling temperatures. Further, the cost of generation also scales with N .
5

QAW-shot generates each of the N questions Q in one inference call, followed by another inference call for generating N correct answer A|Q and finally, N × M wrong answers, W|Q, A. Since each of the N Q is generated jointly, they can be forced to be distinct with appropriate prompting. Similarly, the generated A and W can also be made distinct. However, this requires 3 chained LLM inference calls, and generation failures in earlier calls cascade steeply.
Q(AW)-shot generates each of the N questions Q in one inference call, followed by a final inference call for generating all the N correct and N × M incorrect answers in one go A, W|Q. It enjoys the same uniqueness properties as QAW-shot while having just two chained calls, making it both 30% cheaper and less prone to generation failure cascading. Further, between Q(AW)-shot and QAW-shot, we observe Q(AW)-shot to have a higher generated A quality, perhaps since LLM can jointly model W while generating A. We choose this to be our main method of choice for generating QAW.
Prompt for imputing narrations into the LLM has a tremendous effect on the quality of generated QAW. We experiment with several seed prompts for each of which we inspect the quality of the N generated QAW for 10 clips. Based on this we iteratively improve the seed prompts manually in a zeroth order optimization fashion. In total, we experiment with a total of about 85 prompts in this fashion to arrive at our final EgoSchema prompts ­ PQ for generating N × Q questions and PAW for generating all remaining options (AW)|Q. While we fix the PQ prompt, we use multiple PAW prompts so as to avoid any unintended bias in the options. Fig. 5 shows an abridged example of PQ and PAW , full versions available in supplementary material.
Choice of LLM is extremely crucial for obtaining interesting long-form Q and generating hard negatives for W. With weaker LLMs, the Q diversity across video clips remains narrow, and W tends to be either obviously wrong or, too similar to A and thus a false negative. While we experimented with both GPT-3 [5] and ChatGPT [37] but only found good quality generated QAW at a high enough rate with GPT-4 [38], Bard [18], and Claude [2]. For details please see supplementary.
We generate N = 3 questions per three-minute clip as well as M = 4 wrong answers to every question in addition to the correct answer. We observe that larger N or M tends to generate similar questions and wrong answers putting unnecessary pressure on Stages III and IV for filtering.
3.1.3 Stage III: Generated Question Answer Filtering
While Stage II produces several high-quality QAW, even the best LLM generations are prone to output format aberrations, hallucinations, and sometimes plain false outputs. Further, despite specific pinpointed prompts (Fig. 5), LLMs can fail to comply. Since, we want to ensure EgoSchema to be extremely high-quality and accurate, we set up several filtering rounds to ensure the correctness and high difficulty of questions.
Rule-based filtering. Keywords from the prompts such as `long-term', `narrations', `timestamp' etc. can sometimes bleed into the generated QAW which are then discarded. The output generations can also fail to parse according to a specified format and are also then discarded and the concerned QAW is regenerated.
LLM-based filtering. While rule-based filtering weeds out logic errors, we would like to further enrich QAW before employing human labor. For example, we aim to ensure EgoSchema requires grounded visual reasoning to solve, and hence questions should not be answerable ungrounded, without carefully observing the video. Hence, we develop a "blind" baseline.
Blind filtering baseline employs LLM to guess the correct answer based on the question, without having access to the video narrations conditioned on the shown filtering prompt (Fig. 5). All such ungrounded questions that can be answered blindly are filtered out. This also ensures that generated W are indeed relevant and plausible answers to Q, since otherwise, the LLM would be able to guess A based only on the setting of Q. Note that this is overly restrictive since it is possible that a question is guessed correctly through chance and is not necessarily ungrounded. However, we choose to optimize precision over recall since the amount of filtered QAW is still large enough.
No-Q baseline. We also experimented with a No-Q baseline, where the LLM is prompted to guess the correct answer using the narrations but without the question Q. This ensures that the wrong answers are relevant and plausible to the video clip. However, we found this baseline to have near random accuracy ( 20%), highlighting the efficacy of Stage II. Hence, we decided to not use this filter in the final pipeline. Additional details including the full prompt are in supplementary.
6

3.1.4 Stage IV: Manual QAW Curation
While LLM filtering ensures that the generated QA relates to the video content, it's also necessary to ensure the veracity and a long temporal certificate length for every generated QAW. This is achieved through a two-step manual curation process.
In the first round of curation, annotators are tasked with three primary responsibilities: (A) First, they verify that Q is well-formed and A is indeed the correct answer to Q. (B) Next, they confirm that all the M distractors, W, are indeed wrong answers to Q. (C) Finally, they ensure that the temporal certificate length for answering Q is at least 30 seconds.
A QAW is discarded if any of these three conditions are not met. This reduces the number of admissible questions by a factor of about 4× to 5× within the first round itself. Next is a second round of re-curation, to reinforce the conditions and guarantee data of the highest quality. We find that more than 97% of the questions that pass the first round also pass the second round, speaking to the efficacy of the curation process. A crucial aspect of ensuring that the question assesses very long-form video-language understanding capabilities is the notion of temporal certificate length (condition (C) above), which we describe next. The detailed procedures for onboarding and training the human annotators, as well as the instructions for the curation process are provided in the supplementary.
3.2 Temporal Certificates
We define the temporal certificate of a given video in a video understanding task to be the minimum set of subclips of the video that are both necessary and sufficient to convince a human verifier that the marked annotation for that data (such as timestamps in temporal activity localization, class label in activity recognition or, the correct option in multiple-choice question-answering) is indeed correct, without having to watch the rest of the clip outside of the certificate set (Fig. 2). Naturally, we define certificate length to be the sum of the temporal lengths of the sub-clips present in the certificate set.
Meta-rules. Datasets often have implicit rules that apply uniformly across the entire dataset. We call these conventions meta-rules and allow the human verifier to be well aware of them. For example, in temporal action localization datasets [28], an implicit assumption is that the action to be localized in a contiguous sub-clip and hence can be uniquely determined by the start and end timestamps. Since this rule is valid for all data, we consider it to be a meta-rule.
A comprehensive understanding of meta-rules of a dataset is necessary for accurate estimation of the certificate set, and hence the certificate length. Otherwise, a spuriously long certificate might be necessary to ensure the veracity of the marked annotations. For example, consider the task of action classification on Kinetics-400. A valid meta-rule to be made available to the human verifier in this case is the mutual exclusivity of action classes i.e., each data point can belong only to one of the 400 classes present in Kinetics-400. Without this understanding, given, say a 10-second clip of a human skiing, the certificate set needs to necessarily encompass the entire 10 seconds since otherwise the human verifier might not be convinced that all of the other 399 actions are not occurring in the clip. However, with the knowledge of the label exclusivity meta-rule, the certificate length will be drastically reduced to just a fraction of a second since just observing the action of skiing in a few frames is sufficient for the human verifier to out-rule all other action classes.
Certificate Conventions. For small certificate lengths, it is difficult for humans to estimate the exact sub-clip timestamps to be included in the certificate set. Hence, we choose to have a minimum length of 0.1 second for a certificate. Further, in the case of two non-contiguous certificates, we collapse them into one if their closest ends are < 5 seconds apart. In cases where a fact needs to be verified at several places throughout the video, we let the annotator make a reasonable judgment for the length of the certificate to be included as long as it follows the above conditions.
4 Benchmarking EgoSchema
4.1 Evaluating Certificate Lengths
Fig. 3 presents certificate lengths for a spectrum of tasks spread across 15 different datasets such as, action classification (Kinetics [7], Something-Something [19], UCF101 [45], HVU-Action [12]), detection (AVA [23]), relationship classification (LVU [50]), concept classification (HVU-Concept [12]),
7

video classification (Youtube-8M [1]), Question-Answering (NextQA [52], AGQA [22], NextQA [52], IVQA [33], MSRVTT [54], ActivityNet-QA [62], EgoSchema). For EgoSchema we benchmark the certificate length for 5 hours of video data (100QAW) chosen randomly. For each other dataset, we ensure that (A) each annotated label class (if applicable) has at least 1 data sample evaluated and, (B) at least two hours of human effort is applied. Fig. 2 shows the histogram of estimated EgoSchema temporal certificate lengths for the 100 clips.
Fig. 3 plots the certificate length against the actual clip length. We observe that EgoSchema has temporal certificate length 5.7× longer than the second longest certificate length dataset, and 10× to 100× longer than all other video understanding datasets.

4.2 Evaluating Multiple-choice Question Answering on EgoSchema

In Table 6, We benchmark several state-of-the-art video-language models, with the intention of adding more models in the future, in a Zero-shot question-answering setting on EgoSchema. We evaluate each model in at least two settings. First is the conventional inference setting, where the model is assessed based on the same number of frames it was trained with. And second is a less challenging setting, where the model is tested on the maximum number of frames possible to execute inference with, using an 80G A100, without exceeding the GPU memory capacity. In both settings, frames are sampled uniformly from the input video clip.

FrozenBiLM [57] adapts frozen multi-modal encoders trained on web-scale data for the task of question answering and achieves state-of-the-art zero-shot QA accuracy across 8 video questionanswering datasets. We choose the How2QA FrozenBilM model under both 10 and 90 frames.

VIOLET [14] a masked token modelingbased video language transformer that performs competitively on a variety of videolanguage tasks. We evaluate four of the best VIOLET models that are finetuned on different tasks for both 5 and 75 frames and choose the model with the best overall accuracy. More details are in supplementary.

Figure 6: Benchmarking Zero-shot QA on EgoSchema

Model

Release

Inference Evaluation Params Setting

QA Acc

Choosing the correct A uniformly at random

20.0%

FrozenBiLM [57] Oct 2022

1.2B

10 frames 26.4% 90 frames 26.9%

VIOLET [14]

Sept 2022

198M

5 frames 19.9% 75 frames 19.6%

1 frame 27.0% 5 frames 31.1% mPLUG-Owl [59] May 2023 7.2B 10 frames 29.6% 15 frames 28.7% 30 frames 20.0%

mPLUG-Owl [59] proposes a training strategy to add image & video

InternVideo [48]

Dec 2022

478M

10 frames 31.4% 30 frames 31.8% 90 frames 32.1%

modality to pretrained

large language models. We adapt mPLUG to facilitate the multiple choice QA by prompting

the model with each of the options individually in the format: `Given question <question text>, is

answer <answer text> correct?' along with the video frames. Then, we choose the option with the

highest softmax score of the token `Yes' in the output text. We observe accuracy to be non-monotonic

in frame length, and report results in 1 to 30 frames in Table 6.

InternVideo [48] proposes training video-language models jointly with masked video modeling and contrastive learning objectives. By default, InternVideo does not directly support multiplechoice video QA. We adapt the MSRVTT finetuned InternVideo model, which performs zero-shot multiple-choice tasks, by incorporating the question with each answer choice in the format: 'Question: <question text>? Is it <answer text>'. Then, we choose the option with the highest output score as the prediction. We report results spanning 10 to 90 input frames in Table 6. We observe that performance is monotonic with the number of frames but the gain saturates around just 30 frames.

Human. We also benchmark human performance on multiple-choice question answering task on EgoSchema in Table 7. First, are time pressure settings where the annotators are asked to

8

choose the correct answer under one (`In <1 min') and three (`In <3 min') minutes. Hu-

mans can already achieve an impressive 67.0% accuracy, in under 1 minute! Interestingly,

this only slightly increases (+1.0%) when allowed three minutes. We believe that this can in-

form about performance on EgoSchema in limited model inference capacities. We believe this

could inform about the frame rate needed for long-form video understanding in future mod-

els. Second, we also benchmark human performance using only 1 fps video (`180 frames').

Surprisingly, we observe that just with 1 fps humans can achieve an impressive 67.2%.

Third, we evaluate human performance in a restrictive setting where the annotator is forced

Figure 7: Human Accuracy on EgoSchema

to first watch the video without reading the

Evaluation Setting QA Accuracy

text, and then answer the question without rewatching the video (`Video - Text'). Curi-

180 frames

67.2%

ously, this achieves better accuracy than the `No

In <1 min

67.0%

constraint' setting where the annotators are

In <3 min

68.0%

asked to simply answer without any constraints (76.2% vs. 75.0%). A possible hypothesis is that watching the video without text allows the anno-

No constraint Video  Text

75.0% 76.2%

tator to focus more closely on the video, thereby benefiting performance than the setting where the

attention is somewhat divided between the text and video. We believe this will help us understand

the performance trade-offs in the early vs. late fusion of video and text modalities for long-form

video-language models. Accuracy for `No constraint' setting is estimated over 9 hours of video.

All other accuracies are estimated over 5 hours of video.

5 Conclusion
We present EgoSchema, a novel diagnostic benchmark designed for assessing very long-form videolanguage understanding capabilities of modern multimodal models. We also introduce the notion of a temporal certificate set, a probe that can be applied to a wide array of video tasks and benchmarks for understanding their intrinsic temporal lengths. We estimate temporal certificates of 15 varied datasets and demonstrate EgoSchema to exhibit temporal certificate length approximately 5.7× longer than the next longest dataset and 25× to 100× longer than all other video understanding datasets. We also benchmark several state-of-the-art models on EgoSchema and find their Zero-shot questionanswering accuracy to be less than 33% while humans achieve 76%. We believe that EgoSchema will play a key role in the development and evaluation of future very long-form video-language models.
Limitations. EgoSchema RGB clips are sourced from Ego4D [20] and inherit Ego4D egocentric video biases. Further, the text is carefully curated for veracity, there are inevitable text data distribution biases that can occur in LLM-generated outputs due to biases present in web-scale LLM training data. Finally, human curation itself is far from perfect and while we perform two rounds of curation to minimize false positives, the collected EgoSchema is most likely to inevitably contain some small mislabelled or ill-formed question-answer sets. We plan to host a crowd-sourced errata board to minimize human curation error over time with the support of the open-source research community.

References
[1] Sami Abu-El-Haija, Nisarg Kothari, Joonseok Lee, Paul Natsev, George Toderici, Balakrishnan Varadarajan, and Sudheendra Vijayanarasimhan. Youtube-8m: A large-scale video classification benchmark. arXiv preprint arXiv:1609.08675, 2016.
[2] anthropic. Introducing claude, 2023.
[3] Stanislaw Antol, Aishwarya Agrawal, Jiasen Lu, Margaret Mitchell, Dhruv Batra, C Lawrence Zitnick, and Devi Parikh. Vqa: Visual question answering. In Proc. ICCV, 2015.
[4] Sanjeev Arora and Boaz Barak. Computational complexity: a modern approach. Cambridge University Press, 2009.
[5] Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, et al. Language models are few-shot learners. Advances in neural information processing systems, 2020.

9

[6] Chris Callison-Burch, Miles Osborne, and Philipp Koehn. Re-evaluating the role of bleu in machine translation research. In Conference of the European chapter of the association for computational linguistics, 2006.
[7] Joao Carreira and Andrew Zisserman. Quo vadis, action recognition? a new model and the kinetics dataset. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2017.
[8] Santiago Castro, Mahmoud Azab, Jonathan Stroud, Cristina Noujaim, Ruoyao Wang, Jia Deng, and Rada Mihalcea. Lifeqa: A real-life dataset for video question answering. In Proceedings of the Language Resources and Evaluation Conference, 2020.
[9] Santiago Castro, Naihao Deng, Pingxuan Huang, Mihai Burzo, and Rada Mihalcea. Wildqa: In-the-wild video question answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.06650, 2022.
[10] Santiago Castro, Ruoyao Wang, Pingxuan Huang, Ian Stewart, Oana Ignat, Nan Liu, Jonathan C Stroud, and Rada Mihalcea. Fiber: Fill-in-the-blanks as a challenging video understanding evaluation framework. arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.04182, 2021.
[11] Seongho Choi, Kyoung-Woon On, Yu-Jung Heo, Ahjeong Seo, Youwon Jang, Minsu Lee, and Byoung-Tak Zhang. Dramaqa: Character-centered video story understanding with hierarchical qa. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 2021.
[12] Ali Diba, Mohsen Fayyaz, Vivek Sharma, Manohar Paluri, Jürgen Gall, Rainer Stiefelhagen, and Luc Van Gool. Large scale holistic video understanding. In Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision, 2020.
[13] Zhiyuan Fang, Tejas Gokhale, Pratyay Banerjee, Chitta Baral, and Yezhou Yang. Video2commonsense: Generating commonsense descriptions to enrich video captioning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2003.05162, 2020.
[14] Tsu-Jui Fu, Linjie Li, Zhe Gan, Kevin Lin, William Yang Wang, Lijuan Wang, and Zicheng Liu. An empirical study of end-to-end video-language transformers with masked visual modeling. arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.01540, 2022.
[15] Difei Gao, Ruiping Wang, Ziyi Bai, and Xilin Chen. Env-qa: a video question answering benchmark for comprehensive understanding of dynamic environments. In Proc. ICCV, 2021.
[16] Noa Garcia, Mayu Otani, Chenhui Chu, and Yuta Nakashima. Knowit vqa: Answering knowledge-based questions about videos. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 2020.
[17] Timnit Gebru, Jamie Morgenstern, Briana Vecchione, Jennifer Wortman Vaughan, Hanna Wallach, Hal Daumé Iii, and Kate Crawford. Datasheets for datasets. Communications of the ACM, 2021.
[18] Google. An important next step on our ai journey, 2023.
[19] Raghav Goyal, Samira Ebrahimi Kahou, Vincent Michalski, Joanna Materzynska, Susanne Westphal, Heuna Kim, Valentin Haenel, Ingo Fruend, Peter Yianilos, Moritz Mueller-Freitag, et al. The" something something" video database for learning and evaluating visual common sense. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2017.
[20] Kristen Grauman, Andrew Westbury, Eugene Byrne, Zachary Chavis, Antonino Furnari, Rohit Girdhar, Jackson Hamburger, Hao Jiang, Miao Liu, Xingyu Liu, et al. Ego4d: Around the world in 3,000 hours of egocentric video. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2022.
[21] Madeleine Grunde-McLaughlin, Ranjay Krishna, and Maneesh Agrawala. Agqa: A benchmark for compositional spatio-temporal reasoning. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2021.
10

[22] Madeleine Grunde-McLaughlin, Ranjay Krishna, and Maneesh Agrawala. Agqa 2.0: An updated benchmark for compositional spatio-temporal reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.06105, 2022.
[23] Chunhui Gu, Chen Sun, David A Ross, Carl Vondrick, Caroline Pantofaru, Yeqing Li, Sudheendra Vijayanarasimhan, George Toderici, Susanna Ricco, Rahul Sukthankar, et al. Ava: A video dataset of spatio-temporally localized atomic visual actions. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2018.
[24] Pranay Gupta and Manish Gupta. Newskvqa: Knowledge-aware news video question answering. In Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining. Springer.
[25] Kaiming He, Georgia Gkioxari, Piotr Dollár, and Ross Girshick. Mask r-cnn. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2017.
[26] Qingqiu Huang, Yu Xiong, Anyi Rao, Jiaze Wang, and Dahua Lin. Movienet: A holistic dataset for movie understanding. In Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision, 2020.
[27] Yunseok Jang, Yale Song, Youngjae Yu, Youngjin Kim, and Gunhee Kim. Tgif-qa: Toward spatio-temporal reasoning in visual question answering. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2017.
[28] Yu-Gang Jiang, Jingen Liu, A Roshan Zamir, George Toderici, Ivan Laptev, Mubarak Shah, and Rahul Sukthankar. Thumos challenge: action recognition with a large number of classes (2014), 2014.
[29] Jie Lei, Licheng Yu, Mohit Bansal, and Tamara L Berg. Tvqa: Localized, compositional video question answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:1809.01696, 2018.
[30] Jie Lei, Licheng Yu, Tamara L Berg, and Mohit Bansal. Tvqa+: Spatio-temporal grounding for video question answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.11574, 2019.
[31] Guangyao Li, Yake Wei, Yapeng Tian, Chenliang Xu, Ji-Rong Wen, and Di Hu. Learning to answer questions in dynamic audio-visual scenarios. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2022.
[32] Chin-Yew Lin. Rouge: A package for automatic evaluation of summaries. In Proceedings of the annual meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 2004.
[33] Feng Liu, Tao Xiang, Timothy M Hospedales, Wankou Yang, and Changyin Sun. ivqa: Inverse visual question answering. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2018.
[34] Antoine Miech, Dimitri Zhukov, Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Makarand Tapaswi, Ivan Laptev, and Josef Sivic. Howto100m: Learning a text-video embedding by watching hundred million narrated video clips. In Proc. ICCV, 2019.
[35] Ravi Teja Mullapudi, Steven Chen, Keyi Zhang, Deva Ramanan, and Kayvon Fatahalian. Online model distillation for efficient video inference. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2019.
[36] Jonghwan Mun, Paul Hongsuck Seo, Ilchae Jung, and Bohyung Han. Marioqa: Answering questions by watching gameplay videos. In Proc. ICCV, 2017.
[37] OpenAI. Introducing chatgpt, 2022.
[38] R OpenAI. Gpt-4 technical report. arXiv, 2023.
[39] Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu. Bleu: a method for automatic evaluation of machine translation. In Proceedings of the annual meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 2002.
11

[40] Mahima Pushkarna, Andrew Zaldivar, and Oddur Kjartansson. Data cards: Purposeful and transparent dataset documentation for responsible ai. In 2022 ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency, 2022.
[41] Arka Sadhu, Kan Chen, and Ram Nevatia. Video question answering with phrases via semantic roles. arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.03762, 2021.
[42] Mike Zheng Shou, Stan Weixian Lei, Weiyao Wang, Deepti Ghadiyaram, and Matt Feiszli. Generic event boundary detection: A benchmark for event segmentation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2021.
[43] Mattia Soldan, Alejandro Pardo, Juan León Alcázar, Fabian Caba, Chen Zhao, Silvio Giancola, and Bernard Ghanem. Mad: A scalable dataset for language grounding in videos from movie audio descriptions. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2022.
[44] Xiaomeng Song, Yucheng Shi, Xin Chen, and Yahong Han. Explore multi-step reasoning in video question answering. In Proceedings of the ACM international conference on Multimedia, 2018.
[45] Khurram Soomro, Amir Roshan Zamir, and Mubarak Shah. Ucf101: A dataset of 101 human actions classes from videos in the wild. arXiv preprint arXiv:1212.0402, 2012.
[46] Makarand Tapaswi, Yukun Zhu, Rainer Stiefelhagen, Antonio Torralba, Raquel Urtasun, and Sanja Fidler. Movieqa: Understanding stories in movies through question-answering. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2016.
[47] Paul Vicol, Makarand Tapaswi, Lluis Castrejon, and Sanja Fidler. Moviegraphs: Towards understanding human-centric situations from videos. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2018.
[48] Yi Wang, Kunchang Li, Yizhuo Li, Yinan He, Bingkun Huang, Zhiyu Zhao, Hongjie Zhang, Jilan Xu, Yi Liu, Zun Wang, et al. Internvideo: General video foundation models via generative and discriminative learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.03191, 2022.
[49] Bo Wu, Shoubin Yu, Zhenfang Chen, Joshua B Tenenbaum, and Chuang Gan. Star: A benchmark for situated reasoning in real-world videos. In Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems Datasets and Benchmarks Track, 2021.
[50] Chao-Yuan Wu and Philipp Krahenbuhl. Towards long-form video understanding. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2021.
[51] Tianran Wu, Noa Garcia, Mayu Otani, Chenhui Chu, Yuta Nakashima, and Haruo Takemura. Transferring domain-agnostic knowledge in video question answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.13395, 2021.
[52] Junbin Xiao, Xindi Shang, Angela Yao, and Tat-Seng Chua. Next-qa: Next phase of questionanswering to explaining temporal actions. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2021.
[53] Yu Xiong, Qingqiu Huang, Lingfeng Guo, Hang Zhou, Bolei Zhou, and Dahua Lin. A graphbased framework to bridge movies and synopses. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2019.
[54] Dejing Xu, Zhou Zhao, Jun Xiao, Fei Wu, Hanwang Zhang, Xiangnan He, and Yueting Zhuang. Video question answering via gradually refined attention over appearance and motion. In Proceedings of the ACM international conference on Multimedia, pages 1645­1653, 2017.
[55] Li Xu, He Huang, and Jun Liu. Sutd-trafficqa: A question answering benchmark and an efficient network for video reasoning over traffic events. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2021.
[56] Antoine Yang, Antoine Miech, Josef Sivic, Ivan Laptev, and Cordelia Schmid. Just ask: Learning to answer questions from millions of narrated videos. In Proc. ICCV, 2021.
12

[57] Antoine Yang, Antoine Miech, Josef Sivic, Ivan Laptev, and Cordelia Schmid. Zero-shot video question answering via frozen bidirectional language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2206.08155, 2022.
[58] Pinci Yang, Xin Wang, Xuguang Duan, Hong Chen, Runze Hou, Cong Jin, and Wenwu Zhu. Avqa: A dataset for audio-visual question answering on videos. In Proceedings of the ACM international conference on Multimedia, 2022.
[59] Qinghao Ye, Haiyang Xu, Guohai Xu, Jiabo Ye, Ming Yan, Yiyang Zhou, Junyang Wang, Anwen Hu, Pengcheng Shi, Yaya Shi, et al. mplug-owl: Modularization empowers large language models with multimodality. arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.14178, 2023.
[60] Yunan Ye, Zhou Zhao, Yimeng Li, Long Chen, Jun Xiao, and Yueting Zhuang. Video question answering via attribute-augmented attention network learning. In Proceedings of the International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, 2017.
[61] Kexin Yi, Chuang Gan, Yunzhu Li, Pushmeet Kohli, Jiajun Wu, Antonio Torralba, and Joshua B Tenenbaum. Clevrer: Collision events for video representation and reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.01442, 2019.
[62] Zhou Yu, Dejing Xu, Jun Yu, Ting Yu, Zhou Zhao, Yueting Zhuang, and Dacheng Tao. Activitynet-qa: A dataset for understanding complex web videos via question answering. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 2019.
[63] Heeseung Yun, Youngjae Yu, Wonsuk Yang, Kangil Lee, and Gunhee Kim. Pano-avqa: Grounded audio-visual question answering on 360deg videos. In Proc. ICCV, 2021.
[64] Amir Zadeh, Michael Chan, Paul Pu Liang, Edmund Tong, and Louis-Philippe Morency. Socialiq: A question answering benchmark for artificial social intelligence. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2019.
[65] Wentian Zhao, Seokhwan Kim, Ning Xu, and Hailin Jin. Video question answering on screencast tutorials. arXiv preprint arXiv:2008.00544, 2020.
13

EgoSchema Datasheet
Motivation
For what purpose was the dataset created? Was there a specific task in mind? Was there a specific gap that needed to be filled? Please provide a description. EgoSchema is a diagnostic benchmark for assessing very long-form video-language understanding capabilities of modern multimodal systems. While some prior works have proposed video datasets with long clip lengths, we posit that merely the length of the video clip does not truly capture the temporal difficulty of the video task that is being considered. To remedy this, we introduce temporal certificate sets, a general notion for capturing the intrinsic temporal understanding length associated with a broad range of video understanding tasks & datasets. Please see Section 3.2 in the main paper for more details.
Who created this dataset (e.g., which team, research group) and on behalf of which entity (e.g., company, institution, organization)? The authors created the dataset within the Malik Group at Berkeley AI Research, UC Berkeley. The authors created it for the public at large without reference to any particular organization or institution.
Composition
What do the instances that comprise the dataset represent (e.g., documents, photos, people, countries)? Are there multiple types of instances (e.g., movies, users, and ratings; people and interactions between them; nodes and edges)? Please provide a description. Each instance in the dataset represents a 3-minute video and text that contains a question and five answer options.
How many instances are there in total (of each type, if appropriate)? EgoSchema has a total of 5063 instances each containing one video, one question, and five answer options. You can see further statistics on the whole data on our website egoschema.github.io.
Does the dataset contain all possible instances or is it a sample (not necessarily random) of instances from a larger set? If the dataset is a sample, then what is the larger set? Is the sample representative of the larger set (e.g., geographic coverage)? If so, please describe how this representativeness was validated/verified. If it is not representative of the larger set, please describe why not (e.g., to cover a more diverse range of instances, because instances were withheld or unavailable). The video component of our dataset derives from the broader Ego4D dataset. For our research, we selectively extracted non-overlapping three-minute segments from the Ego4D video data, each segment consisting of a minimum of 30 human-annotated narrations (where each narration refers to a timestamped sentence). Detailed statistic of the number of viable clips for different possible length and narration density choices is discussed in Supplementary Section 6. The selected subset is very diverse in human behavior as can be seen by the activity statistics presented on egoschema.github.io.
What data does each instance consist of? "Raw" data (e.g., unprocessed text or images) or features? In either case, please provide a description. Each instance in our dataset comprises raw mp4 video data, captured at a rate of 30 frames per second and with a high resolution. Accompanying this video data, there are six text elements - one question and five corresponding answer options one of which is marked as the correct answer to the question.
Is there a label or target associated with each instance? If so, please provide a description.
14

Each instance is associated with a label ranging from 1 to 5 that indicates which of the five answer options is correct.
Is any information missing from individual instances? If so, please provide a description, explaining why this information is missing (e.g. because it was unavailable). This does not include intentionally removed information but might include, e.g., redacted text.
All instances are complete.
Are relationships between individual instances made explicit (e.g., users' movie ratings, social network links)? If so, please describe how these relationships are made explicit.
Some instances may have the same video but different questions and answers. It will be indicated by a clip unique identifier in the final dataset.
Are there recommended data splits (e.g., training, development/validation, testing)? If so, please provide a description of these splits, explaining the rationale behind them.
EgoSchema is designed specifically for zero-shot testing. Its primary purpose is to be able to asses the out of the box long-term video-language understanding capabilities of modern multimodal models.
Are there any errors, sources of noise, or redundancies in the dataset? If so, please provide a description.
The dataset was very carefully manually curated to mitigate any incidence of errors within the questions and answers. Although different questions may be posed for the same clip, it is ensured that there is no overlap between any two distinct clips. Further related details are also discussed in the limitations section in the main paper.
Is the dataset self-contained, or does it link to or otherwise rely on external resources (e.g., websites, tweets, other datasets)? If it links to or relies on external resources, a) are there guarantees that they will exist, and remain constant, over time; b) are there official archival versions of the complete dataset (i.e., including the external resources as they existed at the time the dataset was created); c) are there any restrictions (e.g., licenses, fees) associated with any of the external resources that might apply to a future user? Please provide descriptions of all external resources and any restrictions associated with them, as well as links or other access points, as appropriate.
Entirety of the dataset will be made publicly available at our project website egoschema.github.io. We will also provide a download tool for preprocessing all the videos such as cutting clips, associating the question/answer text etc. Text will be released in a JSON format, hosted on our github repository. EgoSchema will be publicly released under the Ego4D license, which allows public use of the video and text data for both research and commercial purposes.
Does the dataset contain data that might be considered confidential (e.g., data that is protected by legal privilege or by doctor-patient confidentiality, data that includes the content of individuals non-public communications)? If so, please provide a description.
No
Does the dataset contain data that, if viewed directly, might be offensive, insulting, threatening, or might otherwise cause anxiety? If so, please describe why.
No
Does the dataset relate to people? If not, you may skip the remaining questions in this section.
Some videos do contain people. However, the Ego4D authors employed an array of de-identification procedures primarily centered on ensuring a controlled environment with informed consent from all participants, and, where applicable, in public spaces with faces and other personally identifiable
15

information suitably obscured. We strictly import all RGB information from Ego4D without any addition of our own.
Does the dataset identify any subpopulations (e.g., by age, gender)? If so, please describe how these subpopulations are identified and provide a description of their respective distributions within the dataset.
No
Is it possible to identify individuals (i.e., one or more natural persons), either directly or indirectly (i.e., in combination with other data) from the dataset? If so, please describe how.
No, Ego4D has employed an array of deidentification procedures in order to obscure any personally identifiable information such as people's faces.
Does the dataset contain data that might be considered sensitive in any way (e.g., data that reveals racial or ethnic origins, sexual orientations, religious beliefs, political opinions or union memberships, or locations; financial or health data; biometric or genetic data; forms of government identification, such as social security numbers; criminal history)? If so, please provide a description.
No
Collection Process
How was the data associated with each instance acquired? Was the data directly observable (e.g., raw text, movie ratings), reported by subjects (e.g., survey responses), or indirectly inferred/derived from other data (e.g., part-of-speech tags, model-based guesses for age or language)? If data was reported by subjects or indirectly inferred/derived from other data, was the data validated/verified? If so, please describe how.
The video data, which is directly observable, was procured from the publicly accessible Ego4D dataset. In contrast, the text data was generated through the use of Large Language Models (LLMs) including GPT4, BARD, and Claude. These LLMs employed visual narrations from each video within the Ego4D dataset to generate the corresponding text.
What mechanisms or procedures were used to collect the data (e.g., hardware apparatus or sensor, manual human curation, software program, software API)? How were these mechanisms or procedures validated?
The video and narration data were downloaded in accordance with the official Ego4D guidelines for data access: https://ego4d-data.org/docs/start-here. For the generation of the text data within our dataset, we utilized API access for GPT4 via OpenAI, for BARD via Google, and for Claude via Anthropic. This allowed us to generate three distinct questions for each video clip sampled from the Ego4D dataset. Upon the generation of these questions for each sampled video clip, we implemented a series of filtering procedures including Rule-based filtering, Blind filtering, and Manual curation. See Section 3.1.2 in the main paper for a more detailed explanation.
If the dataset is a sample from a larger set, what was the sampling strategy (e.g., deterministic, probabilistic with specific sampling probabilities)?
The video component of our dataset derives from the broader Ego4D dataset. For our research, we selectively extracted non-overlapping three-minute segments from the Ego4D video data, each segment consisting of a minimum of 30 human-annotated narrations (where each narration refers to a timestamped sentence). Detailed statistic of the number of viable clips for different possible length and narration density choices is discussed in Supplementary Section 6.
Who was involved in the data collection process (e.g., students, crowdworkers, contractors) and how were they compensated (e.g., how much were crowdworkers paid)?
16

Our research utilized the services of Quantigo, a specialized data labelling company. The teams of Quantigo employees that were based in Bangladesh were compensated at a rate of 5 dollars per hour, at a wage significantly higher than the market hourly rate in Bangladesh. This was done to ensure fair compensation for the complex tasks performed while also contributing to the highest quality of the work delivered. It's important to note that our collaboration with Quantigo followed ethical guidelines, with the fair treatment of all employees involved and the appropriate respect for their expertise and labor. For exact instructions for human curation, see Supplementary Section 7.
Over what timeframe was the data collected? Does this timeframe match the creation timeframe of the data associated with the instances (e.g., recent crawl of old news articles)? If not, please describe the timeframe in which the data associated with the instances was created.
The original videos within the Ego4D dataset were collected across various occasions spanning from 2019 to 2021. As for the EgoSchema, the textual information was collected over several sprints during the first half of 2023 based on the Ego4D narrations.
Were any ethical review processes conducted (e.g., by an institutional review board)? If so, please provide a description of these review processes, including the outcomes, as well as a link or other access point to any supporting documentation.
No
Does the dataset relate to people? If not, you may skip the remaining questions in this section.
Yes
Did you collect the data from the individuals in question directly, or obtain it via third parties or other sources (e.g., websites)?
The video and narration data were acquired in accordance with the official Ego4D guidelines for data access: https://ego4d-data.org/docs/start-here/. The Ego4D authors had in turn ensured consent of the people involved.
Were the individuals in question notified about the data collection? If so, please describe (or show with screenshots or other information) how notice was provided, and provide a link or other access point to, or otherwise reproduce, the exact language of the notification itself.
Ego4d paper followed several procedures to ensure the preservation of privacy and the upholding of ethical standards. Notably, these procedures included obtaining informed consent from those wearing the cameras and adhering to de-identification requirements for personally identifiable information (PII). Given that the video collection was conducted by Ego4D, we are not in a position to provide specific instructions that were given to the camera wearers. The Ego4D privacy statement is available at https://ego4d-data.org/pdfs/Ego4D-Privacy-and-ethics-consortium-statement.pdf
Did the individuals in question consent to the collection and use of their data? If so, please describe (or show with screenshots or other information) how consent was requested and provided, and provide a link or other access point to, or otherwise reproduce, the exact language to which the individuals consented.
Ego4d paper privacy procedures have included obtaining informed consent from those wearing the cameras. Given that the video collection was conducted by Ego4D, we are not in a position to provide specific instructions that were given to the camera wearers. See Ego4D privacy statement.
If consent was obtained, were the consenting individuals provided with a mechanism to revoke their consent in the future or for certain uses? If so, please provide a description, as well as a link or other access point to the mechanism (if appropriate).
Ego4d paper privacy procedures have included allowing camera users to ask questions and withdraw at any time. Additionally, they were free to review and redact their own video. Given that the video collection was conducted by Ego4D, we are not in a position to provide specific instructions
17

that were given to the camera wearers. You can find the Ego4D privacy statement at https://ego4ddata.org/pdfs/Ego4D-Privacy-and-ethics-consortium-statement.pdf.
Has an analysis of the potential impact of the dataset and its use on data subjects (e.g., a data protection impact analysis) been conducted? If so, please provide a description of this analysis, including the outcomes, as well as a link or other access point to any supporting documentation. While we recognize the importance of this topic, we would, once more, refer to the Ego4D paper for an in-depth discussion. Ego4D acknowledges the potential privacy risks associated with the use of wearable devices in data collection and has taken several steps such as depersonalizing any sensitive information, blurring out faces and bodies, etc. towards maintaining privacy. The same carries over to the video data in EgoSchema as well. Broadly, very long-form video understanding is a core capability for agents that are to perceive the natural visual world. Hence, developing datasets such as EgoSchema will be critical to unlocking this key AI capability. Additionally, according to Ego4D privacy statement, all videos from Ego4D were reviewed by an approved member of one of the participant's universities or institutes to identify and assess potential privacy concerns.
Preprocessing/cleaning/labeling
Was any preprocessing/cleaning/labeling of the data done (e.g., discretization or bucketing, tokenization, part-of-speech tagging, SIFT feature extraction, removal of instances, processing of missing values)? If so, please provide a description. If not, you may skip the remainder of the questions in this section. The set of generated questions and answers from output was filtered by those LLMs and finally curated by humans. A detailed description can be found in Section 3. There was no preprocessing done on the video clips sampled from Ego4D.
Was the "raw" data saved in addition to the preprocessed/cleaned/labeled data (e.g., to support unanticipated future uses)? If so, please provide a link or other access point to the "raw" data. Human curation was employed to rectify errors in the question-answer sets, particularly cases where the identified correct answer was wrong or a wrong answer was actually correct. Given the crucial role of this step in ensuring the accuracy of our dataset, we do not find it necessary to release a version of the dataset prior to human curation. However, all the discarded "raw" data is indeed also saved.
Is the software used to preprocess/clean/label the instances available? If so, please provide a link or other access point. The APIs for the Large Language Models (LLMs) are publicly accessible. The prompts for filtering and instructions for human curation are provided in Supplementary Section 5 and Supplementary Section 7 respectively. Additionally all necessary code for generation, filtering etc. is provided in the supplementary materials.
Distribution
Will the dataset be distributed to third parties outside of the entity (e.g., company, institution, organization) on behalf of which the dataset was created? If so, please provide a description. The dataset will be made publicly available and can be used for both research and commercial purposes under the Ego4D license.
How will the dataset be distributed (e.g., tarball on website, API, GitHub) Does the dataset have a digital object identifier (DOI)?
18

The dataset will be distributed as a JSON file describing the unique identifier for each clip, the associated question, the five answer options, the label, and additional clip information that facilitates the tracing of the clip back to the original Ego4D data, such as the Ego4D video identification of the clip's source video, among other details. In addition, download tools to acquire and pre-process the video RGB data will also be provided on our website.
When will the dataset be distributed?
The full dataset will be made available upon the acceptance of the paper before the camera-ready deadline.
Will the dataset be distributed under a copyright or other intellectual property (IP) license, and/or under applicable terms of use (ToU)? If so, please describe this license and/or ToU, and provide a link or other access point to, or otherwise reproduce, any relevant licensing terms or ToU, as well as any fees associated with these restrictions.
EgoSchema will be publicly released under the Ego4D license, which allows direct public use of the video and text data for both research and commercial purposes.
Have any third parties imposed IP-based or other restrictions on the data associated with the instances? If so, please describe these restrictions, and provide a link or other access point to, or otherwise reproduce, any relevant licensing terms, as well as any fees associated with these restrictions.
No
Do any export controls or other regulatory restrictions apply to the dataset or to individual instances? If so, please describe these restrictions, and provide a link or other access point to, or otherwise reproduce, any supporting documentation.
No
Maintenance
Who will be supporting/hosting/maintaining the dataset?
The authors of the paper will be maintaining the dataset, pointers to which will be hosted on github repo https://github.com/egoschema/EgoSchema along with the code for download and preprocessing tool, with the actual data hosted either on Amazon AWS as an S3 bucket or as a google drive folder.
How can the owner/curator/manager of the dataset be contacted (e.g., email address)?
We will post the contact information on our website. We will be available through github issues as well as through email.
Is there an erratum? If so, please provide a link or other access point.
We will host an erratum on the Github repo in the future, to host any approved errata suggested by the authors or the video research community.
Will the dataset be updated (e.g., to correct labeling errors, add new instances, delete instances)? If so, please describe how often, by whom, and how updates will be communicated to users (e.g., mailing list, GitHub)?
Yes, we plan to host an erratum publicly. There are no specific plans for a v2 version, but there does seem plenty oppurtunities for exciting future dataset work based on EgoSchema.
If the dataset relates to people, are there applicable limits on the retention of the data associated with the instances (e.g., were individuals in question told that their data would be retained for a fixed period of time and then deleted)? If so, please describe these limits and explain how they will be enforced.
19

No. Will older versions of the dataset continue to be supported/hosted/maintained? If so, please describe how. If not, please describe how its obsolescence will be communicated to users. N/A There are no older versions at the current moment. All updates regarding the current version will be communicated via our website. If others want to extend/augment/build on/contribute to the dataset, is there a mechanism for them to do so? If so, please provide a description. Will these contributions be validated/verified? If so, please describe how. If not, why not? Is there a process for communicating/distributing these contributions to other users? If so, please provide a description. Contributions will be made possible using standard open-source tools, submitted as pull requests to the relevant GitHub repository. Moreover, we will provide information on how to trace sampled clips back to their original source within the Ego4D dataset. This will enable users to access additional Ego4D data, such as narrations, summaries, and object detections, as applicable.
20

Full Prompts
Here are some of the prompts we developed for generating EgoSchema.
5.1 Set A
5.1.1 Question prompt
Input: I want you to act as a teacher in the class called "Long-term video understanding".
I will provide video action narrations and their timestamps and you will generate three highly difficult and diverse questions for your students about the high-level details in the video. You want to test students' following abilities:
Ability 1: Students' ability to summarize and compare long parts of the video Ability 2: Students' ability to compress information from the video rather than just
listing the actions that happened in the video. Ability 3: Students' ability to identify the most important parts of the video.
Your questions should not mention any particular timestamps or narrations. Remember to make sure the correct answers to your questions do not list information from the narrations but compress them in a concise conclusion.
Examples of good and difficult questions: "What is the main action of the video?" "Why did C do action ...?"
AVOID the following types of questions: "When ...?" "How many ...?" "How much ...?"
When announcing the question please label each question as "Question 1,2,3: [full question]"
Timestamps and narrations: 0 - C stares at the lamp 1 - C looks around the apartment 3 - C talks to a man 6 - C walks around the apartment 10 - C talks to a man 11 - C looks around the apartment 14 - a man plays the guitar 20 - a man walks around the apartment 21 - a man plays the guitar 21 - C walks around the apartment 22 - C stares at the window 24 - C looks around the apartment 27 - C talks to a man 29 - C picks chips from the table 32 - C looks around the apartment 36 - C stares at a man 36 - a man plays the guitar 37 - C walks around the apartment 41 - C sits on the sofa 43 - C stares at a man 44 - a man plays the guitar 49 - a man climbs up the sofa 50 - a man plays the guitar 62 - a man climbs down the sofa 63 - a man walks around the apartment 64 - a man plays the guitar
21

93 - C stares at the table 96 - a man plays a guitar 111 - C stares at the table 112 - a man walks around the apartment 114 - C stares at a man 115 - a man lifts the guitar 118 - a man walks around the apartment 120 - a man places guitar on the sofa 122 - a man walks around the apartment 125 - C stands up 126 - C walks around the apartment 131 - a man picks a coffee maker jug 132 - a man pours coffee in a cup 134 - C stares at a man 140 - C stares at the window 142 - C stares at a man 144 - a man drinks coffee 145 - C looks around the apartment 150 - C walks around the apartment 152 - C talks to a man 156 - C stares at a bench 158 - C looks around the apartment 164 - C stares at a man 164 - a man talks to C 167 - C looks around the apartment 171 - C follows a man 174 - a man points at the window 175 - C looks around the bedroom ================ Output: Question 1: What can you deduce about the relationship between C and the man, based
on their interactions and behaviors throughout the video?
Question 2: Identify the primary activity in the apartment and discuss its importance/significance. How does it influence the actions and atmosphere of the video?
Question 3: Observe the dynamics of the video in terms of changes in characters' actions, interactions, and spatial movement. How do these shifts contribute to the overall narrative?
5.1.2 Answer prompt
Input: I want you to act as a teacher in the class called "Long-term video understanding."
I will provide video action narrations and their timestamps and three highly difficult and diverse questions for your students about the high-level details in the video. I want you to test students' following abilities:
Ability 1: Students' ability to summarize and compare long parts of the video Ability 2: Students' ability to compress information from the video rather than just
listing the actions that happened in the video. Ability 3: Students' ability to identify the most important parts of the video.
I want you to create a difficult multiple-choice exam that tests above student abilities based on the three questions I just provided. Each question should have five similar open-ended but short answers, but only one should be correct. Make it very difficult for students to find the correct answer among all the wrong answers. All answers should be closely related to what happens in the video. Make wrong answers significantly longer than correct answers. Ensure all of the correct answers compress information from narrations them into a concise conclusion. Your answers should not mention any particular timestamps or narrations.
22

Do not use letters for the answer choices Print each correct answer exactly as "Correct answer: [full answer]" Please print each wrong answer on a new line and print each wrong answer as "Wrong
answer 1,2,3,4: [full answer]"
Timestamps and narrations: 0 - C stares at the lamp 1 - C looks around the apartment 3 - C talks to a man 6 - C walks around the apartment 10 - C talks to a man 11 - C looks around the apartment 14 - a man plays the guitar 20 - a man walks around the apartment 21 - a man plays the guitar 21 - C walks around the apartment 22 - C stares at the window 24 - C looks around the apartment 27 - C talks to a man 29 - C picks chips from the table 32 - C looks around the apartment 36 - C stares at a man 36 - a man plays the guitar 37 - C walks around the apartment 41 - C sits on the sofa 43 - C stares at a man 44 - a man plays the guitar 49 - a man climbs up the sofa 50 - a man plays the guitar 62 - a man climbs down the sofa 63 - a man walks around the apartment 64 - a man plays the guitar 93 - C stares at the table 96 - a man plays a guitar 111 - C stares at the table 112 - a man walks around the apartment 114 - C stares at a man 115 - a man lifts the guitar 118 - a man walks around the apartment 120 - a man places guitar on the sofa 122 - a man walks around the apartment 125 - C stands up 126 - C walks around the apartment 131 - a man picks a coffee maker jug 132 - a man pours coffee in a cup 134 - C stares at a man 140 - C stares at the window 142 - C stares at a man 144 - a man drinks coffee 145 - C looks around the apartment 150 - C walks around the apartment 152 - C talks to a man 156 - C stares at a bench 158 - C looks around the apartment 164 - C stares at a man 164 - a man talks to C 167 - C looks around the apartment 171 - C follows a man 174 - a man points at the window 175 - C looks around the bedroom
Questions:
23

Question: what can you deduce about the relationship between c and the man, based on their interactions and behaviors throughout the video?
Question: identify the primary activity in the apartment and discuss its importance/ significance. how does it influence the actions and atmosphere of the video?
Question: Observe the dynamics of the video in terms of changes in characters' actions, interactions, and spatial movement. how do these shifts contribute to the overall narrative?
================ Output: Question 1: What can you deduce about the relationship between C and the man, based
on their interactions and behaviors throughout the video?
Correct answer: They have a casual, friendly relationship. Wrong answer 1: C and the man are complete strangers and never interacted before. Wrong answer 2: C is deeply in love with the man, and the man reciprocates those
feelings. Wrong answer 3: They are business associates discussing a financial transaction. Wrong answer 4: C is an intruder in the man's apartment, and the man is trying to
get C to leave.
Question 2: Identify the primary activity in the apartment and discuss its importance/significance. How does it influence the actions and atmosphere of the video?
Correct answer: The primary activity is the man playing the guitar, which sets a relaxed environment.
Wrong answer 1: The main activity is C staring at different objects, indicating a deep curiosity.
Wrong answer 2: The primary activity is a heated argument between C and the man that escalates over time.
Wrong answer 3: The main activity is the man anxiously pacing around the apartment, creating a tense atmosphere.
Wrong answer 4: The primary activity is C and the man planning to commit a crime together.
Question 3: Observe the dynamics of the video in terms of changes in characters' actions, interactions, and spatial movement. How do these shifts contribute to the overall narrative?
Correct Answer: Actions and interactions are casual and relaxed, reflecting a comfortable environment.
Wrong Answer A : The video displays a profound sense of conflict and tension arising between the characters.
Wrong Answer B : The man is showing C the issues that need fixing in the apartment in a professional manner.
Wrong Answer C : Both the characters display an increasingly urgent need to solve an issue in the apartment.
Wrong Answer D : C and the man admire and interact with several objects in the apartment that look beautiful.
5.2 Set B
5.2.1 Question and answer prompt
Input: I want you to act as a teacher in the class called "Long-term video understanding".
I will provide video action narrations and their timestamps and you will generate three highly difficult and diverse questions for your students about the high-level details in the video. You want to test students' following abilities:
Ability 1: Students' ability to summarize and compare long parts of the video
24

Ability 2: Students' ability to compress information from the video rather than just listing the actions that happened in the video.
Ability 3: Students' ability to identify the most important parts of the video.
Your questions should not mention any particular timestamps or narrations. Remember to make sure the correct answers to your questions do not list information from the narrations but compress them in a concise conclusion.
Examples of good and difficult questions: "What is the main action of the video?" "Why did C do action ...?"
AVOID the following types of questions: "When ...?" "How many ...?" "How much ...?"
When announcing the question please label each question as "Question 1,2,3: [full question]"
Timestamps and narrations: 3 - C holds the cloth in his right hand. 5 - the woman picks a carton from the grocery bag on the floor with her right hand. 6 - the woman drops the carton in a cabinet with her left hand. 7 - the woman dips both hands into the grocery bag. 9 - the woman drops a green carton on the floor with her right hand. 12 - C drops the green carton in the cabinet with his right hand. 13 - the woman holds a pack bag in her right hand. 16 - C opens a kitchen cabinet with his left hand. 18 - C removes a cereal pack from the kitchen cabinet with his left hand. 19 - C puts the green carton into the kitchen cabinet with his right hand. 21 - C closes the kitchen cabinet with his left hand. 24 - the woman removes a plastic from the grocery bag with her right hand. 25 - the woman drops the plastic on the floor with her right hand. 33 - C closes a wardrobe with his left hand. 38 - the woman puts a pack into the cabinet with her right hand. 43 - a dog lies down on a bed. 54 - C picks a cloth from the floor with his right hand. 58 - C adjusts the cloth with both hands. 66 - C hangs the cloth on the wall with both hands. 74 - the woman holds a grocery bag in her right hand. 82 - the woman touches her hair with her right hand. 92 - the woman talks with C. 99 - C holds two piece of cloths in both hands. 100 - the woman picks piece of clothes from a bag with both hands. 100 - C adjusts a camera on his head with his right hand. 103 - C drops the two piece of cloths on a couch with his left hand. 109 - C opens a door with his right hand. 110 - C walks into a toilet. 114 - C holds a red towel in his right hand. 116 - the woman talks with C. 118 - the woman scratches her back with her right hand. 118 - the dog walks into the toilet. 120 - C hangs the red towel on the wall with his right hand. 121 - C holds a towel in his left hand. 129 - the woman holds the towel in her left hand. 129 - the dog walks out of the toilet. 132 - C holds the door with his left hand. 133 - the woman touches her face with her right hand. 148 - C adjusts the camera on his head with his left hand. 149 - C touches his face with his right hand. 150 - the woman holds a bin with both hands. 160 - C opens the door with his right hand. 161 - C walks into the toilet.
25

163 - the woman walks into the toilet. 166 - the woman drops the bin on the floor with both hands. 168 - the woman adjusts the bin on the floor with both hands. ================ Output: Question 1: Can you provide a concise summary of the primary activities taking place
in the video, highlighting similarities between the actions of C and the woman?
Question 2: Based on the video, what task seems to be the central focus of both C and the woman's actions, and how do they contribute to the accomplishment of this task?
Question 3: Identify the three most important segments of the video and explain the significance of each in the overall context of the actions taking place.
================ Input: Students are done with the questions. It is time to reveal the correct answers.
Correctly provide short one-sentence answers to the questions you created, and additionally generate 4 very similar but wrong answers. Make sure that it will be hard to find the correct answer when combined with the wrong ones. Also, ensure that all the answers are concise and very close to an actual answer in length. Mainly make sure your correct answers do not list information from the narrations but compress them in a concise conclusion.
Do not use letters for the answer choices Print each correct answer exactly as "Correct answer: [full answer]" Please print each wrong answer on a new line and print each wrong answer as "Wrong
answer 1,2,3,4: [full answer]" ================ Output: Question 1: Correct answer: C and the woman both interact with various objects to organize the
space, including placing grocery items and hanging cloths. Wrong answer 1: [Output disregarded] Wrong answer 2: [Output disregarded] Wrong answer 3: [Output disregarded] Wrong answer 4: [Output disregarded]
Question 2: Correct answer: The central focus is organizing and tidying up the space, with C and
the woman putting items in their respective places. Wrong answer 1: [Output disregarded] Wrong answer 2: [Output disregarded] Wrong answer 3: [Output disregarded] Wrong answer 4: [Output disregarded]
Question 3: Correct answer: Key segments include organizing groceries, adjusting household items
(e.g., cloths, bins), and interacting with a dog. Wrong answer 1: [Output disregarded] Wrong answer 2: [Output disregarded] Wrong answer 3: [Output disregarded] Wrong answer 4: [Output disregarded]
5.2.2 Wrong answer prompt
Input: I want you to act as a teacher in the class called "Long-term video understanding."
I will provide video action narrations and their timestamps and three highly difficult and diverse questions for your students about the high-level details in the video. I will also show the correct answers to the questions. I want you
to test students' following abilities:
26

Ability 1: Students' ability to summarize and compare long parts of the video Ability 2: Students' ability to compress information from the video rather than just
listing the actions that happened in the video. Ability 3: Students' ability to identify the most important parts of the video.
I want you to create a difficult multiple-choice exam that tests above student abilities based on the three questions and their correct answers I just provided. Each question should have five similar open-ended but short answers, but only one should be correct. Make it very difficult for students to find the correct answer among all the wrong answers. All answers should be closely related to what happens in the video. Make wrong answers significantly longer than correct answers. Ensure all of the correct answers compress information from narrations them into a concise conclusion. Your answers should not mention any particular timestamps or narrations.
Do not use letters for the answer choices Please print each wrong answer on a new line and print each wrong answer as "Wrong
answer 1,2,3,4: [full answer]"
Timestamps and narrations: 3 - C holds the cloth in his right hand. 5 - the woman picks a carton from the grocery bag on the floor with her right hand. 6 - the woman drops the carton in a cabinet with her left hand. 7 - the woman dips both hands into the grocery bag. 9 - the woman drops a green carton on the floor with her right hand. 12 - C drops the green carton in the cabinet with his right hand. 13 - the woman holds a pack bag in her right hand. 16 - C opens a kitchen cabinet with his left hand. 18 - C removes a cereal pack from the kitchen cabinet with his left hand. 19 - C puts the green carton into the kitchen cabinet with his right hand. 21 - C closes the kitchen cabinet with his left hand. 24 - the woman removes a plastic from the grocery bag with her right hand. 25 - the woman drops the plastic on the floor with her right hand. 33 - C closes a wardrobe with his left hand. 38 - the woman puts a pack into the cabinet with her right hand. 43 - a dog lies down on a bed. 54 - C picks a cloth from the floor with his right hand. 58 - C adjusts the cloth with both hands. 66 - C hangs the cloth on the wall with both hands. 74 - the woman holds a grocery bag in her right hand. 82 - the woman touches her hair with her right hand. 92 - the woman talks with C. 99 - C holds two piece of cloths in both hands. 100 - the woman picks piece of clothes from a bag with both hands. 100 - C adjusts a camera on his head with his right hand. 103 - C drops the two piece of cloths on a couch with his left hand. 109 - C opens a door with his right hand. 110 - C walks into a toilet. 114 - C holds a red towel in his right hand. 116 - the woman talks with C. 118 - the woman scratches her back with her right hand. 118 - the dog walks into the toilet. 120 - C hangs the red towel on the wall with his right hand. 121 - C holds a towel in his left hand. 129 - the woman holds the towel in her left hand. 129 - the dog walks out of the toilet. 132 - C holds the door with his left hand. 133 - the woman touches her face with her right hand. 148 - C adjusts the camera on his head with his left hand. 149 - C touches his face with his right hand. 150 - the woman holds a bin with both hands. 160 - C opens the door with his right hand. 161 - C walks into the toilet. 163 - the woman walks into the toilet.
27

166 - the woman drops the bin on the floor with both hands. 168 - the woman adjusts the bin on the floor with both hands.
Questions:
Question: Can you provide a concise summary of the primary activities taking place in the video, highlighting similarities between the actions of c and the woman?
Correct answer: c and the woman both interact with various objects to organize the space, including placing grocery items and hanging cloths.
Question: Based on the video, what task seems to be the central focus of both c and the woman's actions, and how do they contribute to the accomplishment of this task?
Correct answer: the central focus is organizing and tidying up the space, with c and the woman putting items in their respective places.
Question: Identify the three most important segments of the video and explain the significance of each in the overall context of the actions taking place?
Correct answer: key segments include organizing groceries, adjusting household items (e.g., cloths, bins), and interacting with a dog.
================ Output: Question 1: Can you provide a concise summary of the primary activities taking place
in the video, highlighting similarities between the actions of c and the woman?
Correct answer: C and the woman both interact with various objects to organize the space, including placing grocery items and hanging cloths.
Wrong answer 1: C and the woman engage in lengthy conversations about their day while occasionally placing groceries in cabinets and adjusting cloths on walls.
Wrong answer 2: C and the woman focus on preparing an elaborate dinner, flipping through recipe books and chopping vegetables.
Wrong answer 3: Both C and the woman predominantly pay attention to the dog's wellbeing, providing it with food and water and playing with it.
Wrong answer 4: The video revolves around C and the woman working on a DIY project, with tools scattered around the room.
Question 2: Based on the video, what task seems to be the central focus of both c and the woman's actions, and how do they contribute to the accomplishment of this task?
Correct answer: The central focus is organizing and tidying up the space, with C and the woman putting items in their respective places.
Wrong answer 1: C and the woman are preoccupied with an ongoing debate, their actions aimlessly directed towards unrelated tasks.
Wrong answer 2: They are both primarily absorbed in their individual tasks, occasionally interacting with each other but with no clear common goal.
Wrong answer 3: The central focus of their actions is providing care and attention to the dog, and their actions revolve around its needs.
Wrong answer 4: The video primarily depicts a disagreement between C and the woman, with actions centered around this conflict.
Question 3: Identify the three most important segments of the video and explain the significance of each in the overall context of the actions taking place?
Correct answer: Key segments include organizing groceries, adjusting household items (e.g., cloths, bins), and interacting with a dog.
Wrong answer 1: The main segments involve discussing a movie, checking on an overheating stove, and attempting to catch a rodent in the room.
Wrong answer 2: The most important segments consist of C and the woman eating a meal , participating in a board game, and reading books.
Wrong answer 3: Three primary segments include C and the woman debating household chores, searching for lost items, and tending to a crying baby.
Wrong answer 4: Key segments include discussing an upcoming event, taking turns answering a phone call, and checking updates from an ongoing sports game.
28

6 Our clip length and narration density choice
98715
115963 80374 52224 32512 59874

60

36315

33481 22633

13996

8243

22026

180

Clip length

13359

18060 12084

7381

4130

8103

300

4914

5

Nar1r0ations per min15ute

20

Figure 8: Heatmap of number of viable clips over a range of clip length and narration density. There are only a few viable options that offer some degree of balance between the number of clips and the number of narration in the clip. One potential selection is to utilize 3-minute clips with a density of 5 narrations per minute, although this choice bears the significant disadvantage of potentially including clips with an insufficient volume of narration data to generate high-quality results. Another possible choice is to use 1-minute clips with a density of 20 narrations per minute, yet this option carries the drawback of the clips being too brief for the dataset to be very long-term. Hence, we choose 3-minute clips with a narration density of 10 narrations per minute as it offers a satisfactory balance between the number of narrations and clip length for generating EgoSchema.

7 Human curation
Our research utilized the services of a third part company (not MTurk), for specifically training annotators to ensure quality. The process involved two distinct annotation procedures: data curation and human accuracy testing.
7.1 Curation
Generated data curation was performed by Quantigo employees. These curators were responsible for ensuring that the released EgoSchema dataset is tge highest high quality possible. Here is the exact instructions that was provided to annotators:
The annotation we need is to say that the Question-correct answer-wrong answer set ( the whole set) is good if all these three conditions pass:
(Condition A) Question is Answerable: The question can be answered from the video and requires more than just a second of video to answer (so, if the answer is not present in the video or, if the answer can be formed with just a few frames (less than say, a second) then it fails this condition).

29

(Condition B) The Marked Correct Answer is correct: The ""correct answer"" is more the correct answer to the question
(Condition C) The Marked Wrong Answers are wrong: All 4 ""wrong answers"" are less correct than the ""correct answer"" (So for example, if a wrong answer is not completely false, but simply does not contain all the information that the "" correct answer"" does, then it is still a fine ""wrong answer"") IF even one of the marked answer is correct, the set should be labeled as bad.
(Condition D) The question is actually long-term: This is a very very important condition. We want the certificate for the question to be at least 30 seconds minimum. If the certificate is non-contiguous (ie. 5 seconds at one place, 20 seconds at another, and 15 more seconds at a third place) the sum of lengths of all the sub-certificates together should be more than 30 seconds. Another example is, if a question can be answered simply from a few frames of the video, the certificate is small (and less than 30 seconds) and hence would fail this condition. Additional detials on how to handle certificate edge cases are provided in the annotator training through examples.
(Condition E) Avoid Boring Questions: Questions that ask about the frequency of something ("How many times..") fail this condition.
If any of these five conditions fail we want the whole set (Question / Correct Answer / Wrong Answer) marked bad.
Optional: Since GOOD sets are so rare, in cases where it seems that a set is good but a small
part of the above five conditions is not being met or, if one/two words were different this can be a good set, please label as MAYBE and we will fix it in the second round. We expect, Good/Bad to be about 97% of data and Maybe to be not more than 3%.
Extended notes: 1. In our experience, the wrong answers are made such that they differ from the
correct answer in small but crucially meaningful ways. There are many cases where a careless reading of the wrong answer might make it seem that it is correct but upon careful inspection, it will become clear that something about the wrong answer indeed makes it wrong. While this is common, there are indeed cases where the wrong answer is also just as correct as the correct answer. In such cases, the wrong answer fails condition C, and the set is bad.
2. Roughly speaking, we expect about 20-25% of the questions that we have provided to be found as good. However, this is not necessary and the %age can be smaller or larger depending on each three-minute clip.
Edge Cases: 1. If the asked question has multiple answers and at least one of them aligns with
the correct answer while none of them align with any of the other wrong answers, then provided that the top 5 conditions are met, we can mark the set as good.
2. If two questions are very similar (even within different clips) and both are GOOD , only choose one as GOOD and reject the other one with a comment mentioning this. We do not expect this to happen more than 1 or 2 times in a 100.
3. There might be more such edge cases, please feel free to contact me in such cases and we can expland.
8 Benchmarking details
8.1 Violet
Violet is a video language model comprised of a visual encoder, text encoder, and multimodal transformer pretrained on a variety of masked visual modeling tasks ranging from simple ones such as RBG pixel values up to more high levels ones such as spatially focussed image features. It performs competitively on a variety of video-language tasks such as Video-QA and Video-Text Retrieval. We
30

evaluate one pre-trained model and 3 models finetuned on lsmdc-mc, msrvtt-qa, and msrvtt-retrieval. We evaluate using both 5 frames and 75 frames and choose the model with the best overall accuracy.
8.2 mPLUG-Owl
By default, mPLUG-Owl does not possess inherent capabilities for direct video question answering. As such, we undertook several experiments to adapt it to our required format. One approach involved inputting all answer choices in the form of a shuffled test. However, this resulted in a bias towards selecting the first option in most cases. For another approach, FrozenBiLM offered a methodology for frozen zero-shot models to operate in the context of multiple-choice video question answering, which inspired us to adapt this methodology for mPLUG-Owl. As mPLUG-Owl utilizes word-level tokenization, we could extract the confidence score for each generated token, particularly the 'Yes' token. We recorded the 'Yes' token confidence score for each answer option. In instances where the 'Yes' token was absent, we assigned the confidence score as zero, though empirically, in most cases, the model output was positive and contained the 'Yes' token. Ultimately, we selected the answer option with the highest 'Yes' confidence score as the model output given the question. In scenarios where multiple options scored the same highest confidence for the 'Yes' token, we randomly selected the answer from these top-scoring options. It should be noted that mPlug-Owl was originally trained to process a single image, and its capacity to handle additional frames is an emergent ability that has not been thoroughly tested to date."
8.3 InternVideo
The two most closely aligned formats supported by InternVideo are open-ended Video Question Answering and Zero-shot Multiple Choice tasks. In the case of open-ended Video Question Answering, the task is to predict the answer to a question posed within a video. However, due to the restricted vocabulary of open-ended answers in open-ended Video Questions Answering, we decided to formulate EgoSchema within the context of a Zero-shot Multiple Choice task. This task aims to identify the correct answer from a set of given options, without the inclusion of a question. InternVideo has provided finetuned weights for two datasets: MSRVTT and LSMDC. We selected the model finetuned on MSRVTT because it shares greater contextual similarity with EgoSchema.
8.4 Human
To conduct human benchmarking, we engaged a distinct team of ten employees within the same data annotation company to carry out human benchmarking on our dataset. The answers were randomized and presented in the form of a test. The following are the precise instructions provided to the annotators:
- Setting 1: Unlimited setting -- The goal is to get answers as accurately as possible without worrying about time.
- Setting 2: 1 minute timed setting -- In this case, the test taker (annotator) has only 1 minute to spend per question (including watching video/reading text/ everything). If they do not have the answer, just guess the best based on their intuition and move on.
- Setting 3: 3 minutes timed setting-- Same as above but with 3 min instead of just one.
- Setting 4: Video -> Text setting -- In this case, the taker is not allowed to read the text before looking at the video and at the video after reading the text.
In other words, the test taker can spend as much time as they want to look at the video first and then must move on to answering the question. They cannot go
back to the video once they start reading the text. This is an untimed setting -- they can take as much time as they want per question.
- Setting 5: 180 frames setting -- This is the same as the untimed setting except the annotator has access to only 1 frame per second (ie the video feels like a GIF with one frame per second instead of the usual 30 frames per second) -each video is still 3 minutes long, but it feels more jittery. All instructions remain the same as in an untimed setting.
31

Certificate Length CerCteirfiticfiatceatLeeLnegtnhgth

100 80 60 40 20 0 -10
Bin 2 4 6 8
10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34 36+
0
Word using
man cleaning
items cutting adjusting preparing actions
focus paint organizing painting cards main cooking woman process primarily pieces phone
0

Temporal Certificate Length vs Clip LengthTTeemmppoorraall CCeerrttiifificcaattee LLeennggtthh vvss CClliipp LLeennggtthh
100 100

80

EgoSchema

80

EgoSchema EgoSchema

60 60

40 40

20

20

How2Qa AGQA

0 N0extQA

How2Qa How2Qa

AGQA AGQA

NextQA NextQA

ActivityNetQA

ActivityNetQA ActivityNetQA

LVU

LVU LVU

-10

0

10

20

30

40

50

60

70

80

90

100

110

120

130

140

150

160

170

180

190

200

210

220

-10

0

10

20

30

40

50

60

70

80

90

100

110

120

130

140

150

160

170

180

190

200

210

220

0

10

20

30

40

50

60

70

80

90

100

110

120

130

140

150

160Clip Leng1th70

180

190

200

210

220

Clip Length

Clip Length

Scenarios By Clip Frequency
100

SScceennaarriiooss BByy CClliipp FFrreeqquueennccyy

3500

3,401

Temporal CCelirptsifiBycaNtaerrLaetinongtDhenvssitCylip Length

3500 3500

3,401 3,401

CClliippss BByy NNaarrrraattiioonn DDeennssiittyy

Certificate Length

80 Construction
60

Eating
Playing cards

3000 Construction Construction
2500

Eating Eating

Playing Pclaarydinsg cards

3000 3000 2500 2500

EgoSchema

NuNmubmebreorfoCfliCplisps

50 20

Number of Clips

40 Co2ok0ing

Cloth work/painting

Making coffee

Cooking Cooking

Cl2o0t0h0work/painting Cloth work/painting

Making Mcoaffkieneg coffee

2000 2000

0

Carpenter Farmer

-10

0

Cleaning / laundry

How2Qa
Carpenter Carpenter

AGQA

10 Gardening20

Farmer 30 Farmer 40

NextQA 1500

50 1000 60 Cleaning / laundry Cleaning / laundry

Gardening Gardenin7g0

1,151 80

1500 1500

ActivityNetQA
1,151 1,151

1000

90

100 1000110

120

130

140

150

160

170

180

190

200

Clip Length

100

150

Question

200 0

Bin

2

4

6

8

10

12

14

16

18

20

22

24

26

40

6028

Count 30

Bin Bin
2 2 4 4 6 6 8 8 10 10 12 12 14 14 16 16 18 18 20 20 22 22 24 24 26 26 C2a288rpenter 30 30 32 32 34 34
36+ 36+

500

Scenarios By Clip Frequen50c0y

500 325

325 325

Clips By Narration Density

119

0 30-60

60-90

90-120

119 120-150

0

0 21 3500

3300--366,00401 36

60-90 60-90

150-180

180-210

119

5 90-120 5 120-150

90-120

120-150

210-240

300-330

21 21 150-180 150-180

36 36 180-210 180-210

5 5 210-240 210-240

Word Count Distribution Across Correct Answer and Distractor

AQnusewsteirosn,WWCCoooorrrrddrreeCCccoottuuAAnnnnttssDDwwiisseettrrrraaiibbnnuuddttDDiiooiinnssttAA3rr0aacc0rrcc0oottoossssrr

QQuueessttiioonn,, AAnnsswweerrss

Construction

Eating

Playing cards

2500

Number of Clips

Cooking

Cloth work/painting

Making coffee

Farmer

Cleaning / laundry

Gardening

2000 1500 1000

1,151

5 5 300-330 300-330

0

0

50

100

Correct Answer

50

100

150

200 0

50

100

150 0

50

100

150

200 0

50

100

150 0

50 50

100 100

150 150

00500

50 50

100

0

100

0

50

100

50

100

150 Q0uestion Question

50

100

Distractor 1

1C5o0rr0ect Answer Correct Answer

50

100

Distractor 2

Dis0tractor 1 Distractor 1

50

100

Distractor 3

Dis0tractor 2 Distractor 2

50

100 325 Distractor 3

Distractor 3

Distractor 4

Truncated Word Frequency Correct Answer and

DDiissttrraibcutotiroAnnfsowTTrrreQuurunnseccsaatttCCieeoooddnrrrr,WWeeccoottrrdAdAnnFFssrrweweqqeeuurreeaannnnccddyy

DDiissttrriibb0uuttiioonn ffoorr QQuueessttiioonn,, DDiissttrraaccttoorr AA3nn0ss-6ww0 eerrss 60-90

90-120

119 120-150

0

50

100

0

50

100

Distractor 4 Distractor 4

21 150-180

36 180-210

5 210-240

WWoorrdd

using using

Word

mmaann

actions

cleaning

identify

cleaning

iitteemmss

throughout

ccuuttttiinngg

process

adjusting

main

adjusting

pprreeppaarriinngg

overall

aaccttiioonnss

explain

ffooccuuss

primary

ppaaiinntt

key

oorrggaanniizziinngg

based

ppaaiinnttiinngg

purpose

ccaarrddss

goal

mmaaiinn

performed

ccooookkiinngg

describe

wwoommaann

objective

pprroocceessss

considering

pprriimmaarriillyy

summarize

ppiieecceess

steps

pphhoonnee

interactions

00

mome22n00ts

80

100

0

4400

6600

100 CCoouunntt 200

Word WWoorrdd
actions actions

Count

DisWtorrdibution

Across

Question,

WWoorrdd man man

Correct iiddeennttiiffyy
throughout

Answvaermiroaunsand

Distractor

Answers

vvaarriioouuss using

throughout

using

pprroocceessss

using

aaccttiioonnss

mmaaiinn

actions

pprroocceessss

overall

process

tools

overall

tools

eexxppllaaiinn

tools

iitteemmss

pprriimmaarryy

items

ddiiffffeerreenntt

kkeeyy

different

wwoommaann

bbaasseedd

woman

ttaasskkss

ppuurrppoossee

tasks

aarroouunndd

ggooaall

around

cclleeaanniinngg

ppeerrffoorrmmeedd

cleaning

aaddjjuussttiinngg

ddeessccrriibbee

adjusting

kkiittcchheenn

oobbjjeeccttiivvee

kitchen

ppaaiinnttiinngg

ccoonnssiiddeerriinngg

painting

hhaanndd

ssuummmmaarriizzee

hand

ccuuttttiinngg

sstteeppss

cutting

ppaaiinntt

iinntteerraaccttiioonnss

paint

tthhrroouugghhoouutt

mmoommeennttss

throughout

ffooccuuss

8800

110000

00

110000

220000focus 330000

440000

550000

660000

770000

00

5500

110000 115500 220000 225500 330000 335500 440000

300

400

500

600

700

0

5CC0oouunntt 100

150

200

250

300

350

400

CCoouunntt

Count

Count

32 34

Figure 9: Interactive Version of these statistics visualizations can be found at the statistics page on

36+ our website.

0

50

100

150

200 0

50

100

150 0

50

100

150 0

50

100

0

50

100

0

50

LVU

210

220

5 300-330
100

Question

Correct Answer

Distractor 1

Distractor 2

Distractor 3

Distractor 4

Truncated Word Frequency Distribution for Question, Correct Answer and Distractor Answers

Word using
man cleaning
items cutting adjusting preparing actions
focus paint organizing painting cards main cooking woman process primarily pieces phone

Word actions identify throughout process
main overall explain primary
key based purpose
goal performed
describe objective considering summarize
steps interactions
moments

Word man
various using
actions process
tools items different woman tasks around cleaning adjusting kitchen painting hand cutting paint throughout focus

0

20

40

60

80

100

Count

0

100

200

32 300

400

500

600

700

Count

0

50

100 150 200 250 300 350 400

Count

